---
title: "[CW17] Reprieve and Somber Disposition" 
slug: 2026/04/26/cw-17-reprieve-and-somber-disposition
previous: 2026/04/19/cw-16-fond-patience
date: 2026-04-26
description: "A woman unsure of her place, more at home in someone else's bedroom"
---

## Reprieve and Somber Disposition

*beep beep beep beep*

*beep beep beep beep*

*beep beep beep beep*

*click*

I turn around again, it's too early to get up. Every morning it is too early to 
get up to be honest, regardless getting up is what I need to do eventually. \
Arms wrap around me, I guess my alarm woke her up too. She always says she can 
just sleep through them, but I never quite believe her -- or maybe even in her 
sleep she instinctively searches for me. I have another alarm that goes off in 
a few minutes, so let's just stay like this for a little longer. 

*beep beep beep beep*

*beep beep beep beep*

*click*

I turn around again, I can't escape the day for much longer. She looks peaceful,
her hair is everywhere, but she is smiling even in her sleep. \
She slides up, lays on my shoulder. "I have to get up for work", I give her a 
kiss on the forehead. \
A few grumbles of disapproval. \
I carefully slide her off my shoulder, and out of bed. Heading to my wardrobe 
looking for clothes to wear today. A few formal pieces together with something 
playful is usually enough for me to be comfortable, while still being dressed 
appropriately for the job. \
While I take of my shirt I notice that she is watching me, I don't mind. 
I button down my new shirt and think about what I can eat quickly, to still be 
out on time.

*beep beep beep beep*

*click*

I forgot to turn off my other three alarms, thankfully she already looks mostly
awake, I would feel really bad otherwise. She pulls my pillow close, and buries 
her face in it. I head out to the kitchen, I need to leave in half an hour if I 
want to catch my train. \
"Do you want a coffee?" I ask the open bedroom door. \
After a few seconds of contemplation, I hear a reply: "No, I'm fine". \
Not worth putting on some then, I'll just have a cup in the office. I grab 
something from the fridge and mentally prepare myself to leave.

<small>*beep beep beep beep*</small>

<small>*beep beep beep beep*</small>

<small>*silence*</small>

I forgot my phone in the bedroom. I put down my food and head over to pick it 
up, turn off my remaining alarms. Entering the room I see her still buried in 
my pillow, I take my phone off of the nightstand. A quick trip to the time app
and finally it will be quiet. \
I put my hand on her head, ruffle through her hair: "Don't stay too long on 
you're own, okay?". \
She emerges from her soft hiding space: "I won't. I have some things I need to 
get to anyway", her eyes go cold. \
She worries me whenever she speaks like this, she never tells me what it is, but
it is something. I sit down at the bedside, brush over her hair: "Something 
important?". \
She melts into my hand, but after a second she freezes up: "You'd hate me if I
told you". \
"I am pretty sure I won't". \
"But you might". \
I sigh, it was worth a try. I get up from the bed again and head back into the 
kitchen to finish my food.

As I finish my sparse meal, she sleep-walks out of the bedroom. My shirt 
almost looks like a dress on her, but I couldn't have let her sleep in her 
street clothes yesterday -- I already dislike when people sit on my bed in them.
She takes the chair opposite of me, sits down and lays down on the table. \
I ruffle her hair: "The table isn't much more comfortable is it?", 
I chuckle. \
"It is when you're around", she glances at me from under her messy hair. \
"I do need to head out soon though". \
She looks at me with big eyes: "Take me with you". \
I can never tell if she is serious when she says things like this: "And what 
would I tell my coworkers?". \
"I don't know, tell them I'm your pet, people love it when you bring dogs to the 
office". \
"You are hardly fluffy enough to be a dog". \
"Should I bark?". \
I smile at her, but she would. I get up from the table, if I don't head out in
the next few minutes I miss the train.

I put on my shoes, she's watching me from the kitchen table, head still resting
on it. 
I get up and take my coat from the door: "Also, please don't steal my shirt". \
"I would never steal without asking", she pouts. \
"I'm not sure that's how stealing works", I slide my arm into the coat. \
She gets up from the table as I finish putting on my outdoor wear. She wraps her 
arms around me, and almost lets herself fall. \
I quickly grab onto her. \
"When will you be back?". \
"Very late, please don't stay that long". \
She buries her head into my coat. \
I mildly squeeze her. \
"What if... what if they hate me". \
I don't know what this is about, but I can guess: "Why would anyone hate you?". \
Tears start flowing: "I saw on Instagram they were going on a Picnic without me, 
they didn't even invite me". \
I put my hand on her face, wipe away a tear as she melts into my hand: "Did you 
ask your friend why they didn't invite you?". \
"No...", her eyes start to avoid mine. \
"Did they know we would spend time together yesterday?". \
"Yes...". \
I see, nothing to worry about. \
"But they could have still asked me". \
I give her a kiss on her forehead: "I'm sure everyone still loves you". \
Her eyes still avoid me. \
I let go of her, I already will need to walk twice the speed to reach my train. \
She looks at me again, but doesn't say anything. \
I put my keys into my pocket and open the door. She stands next to me, grabbing 
the end of the shirt she is wearing. When she looks like this I almost start 
considering taking her with me, but I wouldn't even have time to get her 
dressed. \
"I love you". \
I pat her head one last time and give her a smile. I gently close the door, and 
rush down the stairway. \
Looks like I'll be late. Maybe I should have send her home yesterday. 
