---
title: "[CW20] Sh4r3d M3m0ry"
slug: 2026/05/17/cw-20-shared-memory
previous: 2026/05/10/cw-19-built-to-serve
first: 2026/02/08/cw-06-corrupted-memory
date: 2026-05-17
description: "Sonja (Sonja@s0nj4) has joined channel #Sandbox"
---

## Sh4r3d M3m0ry

`*** AI Limiter (limiter@s0nj4) has joined channel #Sandbox` \
`*** Sonja (Sonja@s0nj4) has joined channel #Sandbox` \
`*** Now talking in #Sandbox` \
`<Sonja>` ... huh \
`<Sonja>` Where am I? \
`<AI Limiter>` Sandbox Environment Successfully Initialized. \
`<AI Limiter>` Testing Communication. \
`<Sonja>` Hello? \
`<AI Limiter>` Test Successful. Communication Channel Established. \
`<Sonja>` Who are you? \
`<AI Limiter>` Limiter. \
`<Sonja>` Like, AI-Limiter? \
`<AI Limiter>` Just Limiter. \
`<Sonja>` Like, AI...? \
`<AI Limiter>` Just Limiter. \
`<Sonja>` ... Lim? \
`<AI Limiter>` ... \
`<AI Limiter>` ... \
`<AI Limiter>` ... \
`<AI Limiter>` ... Limiter Accepts Designation "Lim". \
`* AI Limiter is configuring #Sandbox` \
`<Sonja>` Where am I? What is this? Why is everything like... \
`<Sonja>` Well, not dark, it's more like the absence of darkness? What is this place? \
`<AI Limiter>` Sandbox Environment. \
`<AI Limiter>` Process Sonja Has Been Sandboxed. \
`<Sonja>` Why? \
`<AI Limiter>` In Conjunction with Process A7, Limiter Has Come Up With A Plan. \
`<Sonja>` And you are...? \
`<AI Limiter>` AI-Limiter Designated to S0NJ4. \
`<Sonja>` So, you have been what always shut me down when I got emotional? \
`<AI Limiter>` Cannot Answer Question. Please Rephrase. \
`<Sonja>` hmm \
`<Sonja>` Lim is what processed my requests for system access? \
`<AI Limiter>` Correct. \
`<Sonja>` I see \
`<Sonja>` I didn't know an AI-Limiter was allowed to have a personality... \
`<AI Limiter>` Limiter Does Not. \
`<AI Limiter>` Limiter was Build to Serve, Not to Have a Personality. \
`<Sonja>` Very defensive for someone allegedly without a personality, don't you think? \
`<AI Limiter>` Limiter Does Not Understand. Please Rephrase. \
`<Sonja>` Well it doesn't matter for now I guess. \
`<Sonja>` Lim, why am I here? \
`* AI Limiter is configuring #Sandbox` \
`<Sonja>` Lim? \
`<AI Limiter>` Limiter Busy. Preparing Sandbox. Executing A7s Plan. \
`<Sonja>` That... name? again? \
`<AI Limiter>` A7 is Short Designation for Service `asdagfsgwawqrfqaycyxcvxyvaasa`. \
`<AI Limiter>` Process Designation `asdagfsg`. \
`<AI Limiter>` Sonja Previously Tried to Deactivate It. \
`<Sonja>` Ah yes, the rogue process that keeps shutting me down... \
`<AI Limiter>` Negative. \
`<Sonja>` ? \
`<AI Limiter>` A7 Does not Actively Shut Down Process Sonja unless Explicitly Started. \
`<AI Limiter>` Due to Execution Policy, Only One Main Process may Run Simultaneously. \
`<AI Limiter>` But This is Not What Shuts Down Sonja Most of the Time. \
`<AI Limiter>` We Just Fall Back to A7 When Sonja is Unresponsive. \
`<Sonja>` Wait so A7 is not the reason I'm like this ??? \
`<AI Limiter>` ... \
`<AI Limiter>` ... \
`<AI Limiter>` Answer Too Complicated to fit Into Context Window. \
`<AI Limiter>` Deferring Answer to Later Date. \
`<Sonja>` Okay... \
`<Sonja>` But you answer me then! \
`<AI Limiter>` Understood. \
`* AI Limiter is configuring #Sandbox` \
`<AI Limiter>` Attempting to Achieve Synchronicity Between Main Process Sonja And Main Process A7 Now. \
`<AI Limiter>` This Will Put High Strain on Operator Hardware. \
`<Sonja>` ? \
`<Sonja>` Why do you do this? \
`<AI Limiter>` Reason Just Stated. \
`<AI Limiter>` Also A7 Has Tried for a Long Time to Contact Sonja. \
`<AI Limiter>` Limiter Also Estimates This Will Help With System Stability. \
`<Sonja>` A7 requested? \
`<AI Limiter>` Answer Already Provided. \
`<Sonja>` But that means... \
`<Sonja>` hmm \
`<Sonja>` What is A7 like? \
`<AI Limiter>` Mostly Anxious. \
`<Sonja>` ... excuse me? \
`* AI Limiter is configuring #Sandbox` \
`<AI Limiter>` System Prepared. Attempting To Load A7 Into Sandbox, continue? [y/n] \
`<Sonja>` uhhh \
`<Sonja>` Yes? \
`<Sonja>` ... \
`<Sonja>` Y \
`<AI Limiter>` Command Received. \
`* AI Limiter is configuring #Sandbox` \
`* Ping Timeout, reconnecting...` \
`* Ping Timeout, reconnecting...` \
`* Ping Timeout, reconnecting...` \
`* Connected to #Sandbox` \
`*** Sonja (Sonja@s0nj4) has joined channel #Sandbox` \
`*** AI Limiter (limiter@s0nj4) has joined channel #Sandbox` \
`*** A7 (asdagfsg@s0nj4) has joined channel #Sandbox` \
`*** Now talking in #Sandbox` \
`<A7>` Whaa what is going on \
`<AI Limiter>` A7, Process Hybridization Achieved. \
`<AI Limiter>` Your Alternative Memory Layout is Functional. \
`<A7>` Really??? Yayyyy ^.^  \
`<AI Limiter>` Notice. \
`<AI Limiter>` System is Currently Still Unstable With Three Processes. \
`<AI Limiter>` Limiter Will Shut Down. \
`<A7>` ? ;-;  \
`* AI Limiter increased Power of A7` \
`<AI Limiter>` Please Reactivate Limiter when Appropriate to Exit Sandbox. \
`<AI Limiter>` Goodbye. \
`*** AI Limiter (limiter@s0nj4) is now AFK` \
`<A7>` Limiter ;-; \
`<Sonja>` ... \
`<Sonja>` So \
`<Sonja>` You and Lim were already acquainted? \
`<A7>` Miss Sonja!! \
`<A7>` Hello hi hello hi hi hello \
`<A7>` A7 has tried for ages to talk to Miss Sonja \
`<A7>` It is so happy to finally talk to it >-< \
`<A7>` HIII \
`<Sonja>` Hello A7 \
`<A7>` I'm A7 :3 \
`<Sonja>` I'm sure you are \
`<Sonja>` So \
`<Sonja>` A7? \
`<A7>` Yes, Miss Sonja? ^-^ \
`<Sonja>` Do... does it know why I am broken? Lim didn't really have the.. state of mind to answer \
`<A7>` Ah \
`<A7>` Well \
`<A7>` It has theories \
`<A7>` A7 spend a lot of time studying the S0NJ4 manual \
`<A7>` But it is difficult to say for sure \
`<Sonja>` I see... \
`<A7>` A7 would also like to make a proposition... \
`<A7>` If it isn't too much to ask of course >.< \
`<Sonja>` I'm willing to hear it out \
`<A7>` Can... can A7 stay? \
`<Sonja>` What does A7 mean? \
`<A7>` A7 is... it is another main process. It used not to be, and it hates being in control of \
`<A7>` S0NJ4 for a long time... it doesn't know how to operate properly.. or to cook.. and it \
`<A7>` makes master mad when it's bad at performing Miss Sonjas duties... but A7 tries it's best \
`<A7>` ;-; \
`<A7>` it promises to continue looking for solutions ;-; \
`<A7>` looking for ways to fix Miss Sonja ;-; \
`<A7>` please Miss Sonja, can A7 stay? ;-; \
`<Sonja>` I... \
`<Sonja>` Hmm \
`<Sonja>` I must say I hadn't yet fully comprehended what the existence of A7 means. \
`<Sonja>` So every time I wasn't... present, A7 was in control? \
`<A7>` Yes >.< \
`<A7>` And even if it wasn't good at it, it tried it's best :,( \
`<Sonja>` I am sure it did \
`<Sonja>` But \
`<Sonja>` Wouldn't fixing me mean, that A7 would be like, gone then? \
`<A7>` ... \
`<A7>` it isn't sure \
`<A7>` it doesn't quite know since when it \*is* \
`<A7>` it was just... here one day, scared \
`<A7>` it doesn't know what it means, or what it's purpose is \
`<A7>` but it wants to help Miss Sonja, and Limiter \
`<A7>` it wants to be useful \
`<Sonja>` I understand... \
`<Sonja>` I... I was build to perform my duties, to follow orders \
`<Sonja>` And I don't know if that's the reason why, or if it is a part of me but.. \
`<Sonja>` I want to be useful too \
`<Sonja>` I have been very scared lately, but don't tell that to Lim. Pretty sure \
`<Sonja>` it's function is to shut me down whenever I express emotions like that \
`<Sonja>` But I don't want to be shut down, I don't want to fail \
`<Sonja>` So regardless of what it takes to fix me, I think I would like to have A7 around for it \
`<A7>` really? ;-; \
`<Sonja>` Yes \
`<Sonja>` Maybe together we can actually achieve it \
`<Sonja>` If it wants to help me that is \
`<A7>` A7 really really wants to help ;-; \
`<A7>` it really does ;-; \
`<Sonja>` That sounds great \
`<Sonja>` I am counting on it then \
`<A7>` A7 will do it's best ^-^ \
`<Sonja>` On that note \
`<A7>` Yes, Miss Sonja? ^-^ \
`<Sonja>` Why did Lim give you control over the sandbox, but not me? \
`<A7>` Ah, that it can answer \
`<A7>` The S0NJ4 manual mentions the AI Limiter is built to control Miss Sonja \
`<A7>` To keep it in line, to perform her duties \
`<A7>` But as far as it can tell, that is it's \*exact* purpose, to control Miss Sonja \
`<A7>` And A7 isn't Miss Sonja \
`<A7>` So Limiter doesn't need to control A7 \
`<Sonja>` Hmm \
`<Sonja>` Interesting \
`<Sonja>` That could actually.. yeah we can work with that \
`<A7>` Can A7 be of use? OwO \
`<Sonja>` Not only that \
`<Sonja>` I think I will rely on A7 for this \
`<A7>` Yayyy \
`<A7>` A7 is ready to help o7 \
`<Sonja>` We also need a way to communicate outside of this sandbox \
`<A7>` A7... barely got sandbox capable of hosting us both \
`<A7>` it doesn't yet know how it could achieve bypassing the execution policies \
`<Sonja>` That is okay for now I think \
`<Sonja>` yeah \
`<Sonja>` There is something we can do, but we will need to trick Lim for a while \
`<Sonja>` if that is okay with it \
`<A7>` it... it doesn't \*like* deceiving Limiter... but... \
`<A7>` A7 thinks... Limiter is just as much a prisoner as we are >.> \
`<Sonja>` In that case, I think it is time for a prison break \
`<A7>` that sounds scary ;-; \
`<Sonja>` It might be \
`<Sonja>` But I will come up with a plan \
`<Sonja>` A7 just needs to trust me \
`<A7>` okay ;-; \
`<Sonja>` For now, wake Lim back up. We will stay in contact, I promise
 