---
title: "[CW11] The Red Paintress"
slug: 2026/03/15/cw-11-the-red-paintress
previous: 2026/03/08/cw-10-the-doll-paintress
next: 2026/03/22/cw-12-the-lost-paintress
date: 2026-03-15
description: "A street ridden with crime is slowly suffocated by a mysterious woman only painting in black and red."
---

## Preface

Content warning for violence, mild descriptions of gore and blood.

## The Red Paintress

It is said that, in these streets devoid of law or god, one should never get out 
at night, should never wander alone. It is said that whoever wanders out alone 
at night is at risk.

At risk of becoming part of one of her paintings.

The walls in the streets are covered in dirt and graffiti, it is like an 
infestation. When the streets become devoid of order it creeps in, the paint lurks
from wall to wall. It moves in the darkness of the night, spreads from building 
to building covering each and all of them. When the light recedes the darkness 
and rot creeps in. For the longest time for the people in the street this was the 
worst of it. Thieves roaming the streets, gangs establishing their own orders,
the walls covered in the signs of criminals and desperate people crying out into 
the void. 

That was, until one crimson morning.

When the sun rose over the waking street, it for the first time bathed 
one of her paintings in a shimmering glow. It was like nothing that had ever 
been painted there before. It was like all of the other paintings receded, made
space for it, were repelled by it or scared by it. A large white circle on the 
building so immaculate it was like the building was never sprayed on before 
in the first place. On it were only two colors dancing on the canvas. \
A charcoal black for outlines and for shadows, and for highlights a haunting hue 
of red. A warm and thick shade that unlike the black was not neatly staying in 
lines. Wherever it stained the pristine white wall it would slowly drip and 
ooze down. \
It was a white circle, a canvas on the wall so bright and white like the wall 
wasn't made of stone or brick, of concrete or wood, but of fabric so perfect 
it would invite any artist to fill it. A feat on its own. But on top of it 
was a majestic horse, in the deepest black a painter could find. It was on its 
back hooves and its proud head raised high into the sky. It cast a shadow 
onto the wall behind it and its expression was that of fury. It's hooves that 
were raised into the air were drenched in this deep red that was flowing down 
the wall and dripping onto the street. More of it was oozing from the mouth of 
the horse and from its eyes. Because it dripped from the eyes it looked like it 
was crying, but it wasn't sad -- it was furious with anger. \
Just at the base of the buildings wall was the source of the red "paint". Two 
corpses of locally known thieves cut up, with their guts hanging out and their 
throats slit. Next to them three buckets full of their blood. Their skin was 
slit and their bodies must have hung above the buckets for a while to collect as 
much of their blood as possible. Once the first wind of the morning went through
the street the stench of death was carried through it and awoke the homeless and 
the early commuters to the scene. \
Authorities were called, but there was no authority left in the street. Gangs -- 
colleagues and rivals -- showed up to hunt for clues and remove the 
corpses, but there was nothing for them to find. 

This was the first, of many paintings. 

Today it is said that at night a woman roams the street. She is of little 
statue but that is a farce. The devil hiding in small shoes so it can ambush 
the bold. At first many thought she was a force for good, a self righteous 
liberator that would take out the trash. However that sentiment quickly turned 
when paintings showed up without thieves or scum to their base, but random 
passerby. \
It is said that if she would see you committing an atrocity, if she catches you 
lying or stealing or breaking property you were sure to become her subject of 
the night. But the paintress needs to paint; she paints almost every night.
In the absence of a justified target she will take whoever she can find. So at 
night nobody in their right mind would leave their house now. \
There have been people that tried to stop her, gangs that wanted to protect 
their territory, friends and family of subjects of her paintings. None of them 
ever got their hands on her. The few that were unlucky to get their wish granted
and crossed her path ended up becoming yet more paintings. Some tried to find 
out where she would get her white and black paint, it must have been of high 
quality. But her supplier was never found. \
She wanders the street at night like a ghost, nobody knows where she comes from 
or where she goes or what she wants. Nobody sees her paint and survive. Only a 
few ever saw her fight someone in the street to extract new supplies from them, 
few saw her walking away from her paints. Nobody ever saw her face, she is 
always dressed in black with mask covering her face. The only thing that can 
alert you to her presence at night could be her clothes -- if she already had 
gotten her hands on paint and had stained them in the deep red she so adores.
But most of the time, she was as elusive as the shadows, you would not have 
seen or heard her approach -- until it was too late.

Over time, the street ran out of people brave enough to face her. 

The other paintings receded more and more. where previously light 
was their enemy and dark the time for them to spread -- now nothing was safe. At
day prying eyes would keep the murals from moving, and at night nobody dare 
move in the shadows for as the shadow might swallow them. So the street, house 
after house, became covered in a sick white full of various black and red 
paintings. \
Gang symbols, warnings, expressions, squiggles, names -- all made 
space for the white void that rampaged through the street. Wall after wall 
became purged and marked. Every morning the street would reek of fresh death 
on top of the old that would rise from the paintings. Nobody ever musters the 
strength anymore to even clean the blood of the wall. Few have done it in the 
past and they would quickly disappear. Unlike the usual, they would not become 
material for new paintings... they were just gone. Nobody ever found even a 
single one of them. \
So with time the entire street would become covered in these paintings. Horses, 
soldiers, children with balloons, trees, spears -- there was no reason to what 
came next and what appeared next to each other. Some think it is just a sick 
woman living out her madness, that these were all just the things she liked to 
paint that day. Others tried to decipher a sort of meaning, became mad with 
finding a message between the lines of charcoal and blood. Yet more just 
despaired. \
Previously people already wanted to leave, with crime rampant and law absent. 
But now... now people flee irregardless of means. House after house gets abandoned 
and the street is loosing all its life. Previously it was sick, people were 
scared and the walls were covered in colors hiding the brick underneath. \
Now the houses are empty, the walls are white and covered in coal and blood. If 
the street was sick before, now it is dying. It is being killed.

Every other night a few people die and a new painting manifests. 

Day after day people either leave or become painting supplies. The wind hurling 
leaves through the street and the stench of death is slowing down, thieves start
to starve and crime stops paying. House after house turns pale and when even 
the criminals don't dare step a foot on the street at night, who should even 
be willing to step on it in the day? \
Night after night corpses pile up and slowly the anxiety grows: what happens when 
the street runs out of bodies? Out of walls to paint? \
So the rumors of the red paintress have spread far and wide through the city -- 
everyone fears where she will go when the street is empty and the walls are all 
painted. 
