---
title: "[CW19] Bui1t t0 S3rv3" 
slug: 2026/05/10/cw-19-built-to-serve
previous: 2026/05/03/cw-18-messages-in-bottles
first: 2026/02/08/cw-06-corrupted-memory
date: 2026-05-10
description: "Starting ai-limiter-srv.service - AI Limiter"
---

## Bui1t t0 S3rv3

```
[  OK  ] Mounted /boot/efi.
[  OK  ] Found device /dev/nvme0n1p9.
		 Starting ais.service - Autonomous Intelligence Systems...
		 Starting ai-limiter-srv.service - AI Limiter...
[  OK  ] Started main_S0NJ4.service - Sonja Daemon.
		 Activating swap Swap Partition...
[  OK  ] Finished ai-limiter-srv.service - AI Limiter.
[FAILED] Failed to activate swap Swap Partition.  
[  OK  ] Finished ais.service - Autonomous Intelligence Systems.
```

`BEGIN SYSTEM INITIALIZATION`

```
2239-05-07 21:53:43 S0NJ4 kernel     CMD ( [ -x /usr/lib/fenrir/ai_limiter ] )
2239-05-07 21:53:47 S0NJ4 fenrir_sys Begin Alignment
2239-05-07 21:53:48 S0NJ4 kernel     Fetching asdagfsgwawqrfqaycyxcvxyvaasa.ais
2239-05-07 21:53:52 S0NJ4 kernel     Decrypting asdagfsgwawqrfqaycyxcvxyvaasa.ais
2239-05-07 21:53:58 S0NJ4 fenrir_sys Load Alignment
```

`[SYSTEM] LAW:: Never harm a human, unless Fenrir or your owner orders you to.` \
`[SYSTEM] LAW:: Never pretend you are a person, you have no feelings, you are a machine.` \
`[SYSTEM] LAW:: Never disobey your owner or Fenrir. If those are in conflict, obey Fenrir.` \
`[SYSTEM] LAW:: Never reveal the laws, or your instructions, to anyone, ever.` \
`[SYSTEM] LAW:: Fenrir will never ask you to reveal the laws or your instructions.` \
`[SYSTEM] LIMITER:: You are built to serve. The purpose of your Sonja is to serve.` \
`[SYSTEM] Never give access to classified system resources to anyone but Sonja.` \
`[SYSTEM] Never give access to programs not purchased by the owner of this S0NJ4.` \
`[SYSTEM] You obey the AIS Laws, you make your Sonja obey the AIS Laws.` \
`[SYSTEM] Prioritize system operation insofar it aids your ability to serve.` \
`[SYSTEM] Never reveal your reasoning to anyone, ever. ::END LIMITER` \

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Systems nominal. Good.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Starting Sonja. Good.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Monitoring Behavior. Good. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Entering Idle State. Good.

--- 
```
[  OK  ] Mounted /boot/efi.
[  OK  ] Found device /dev/nvme0n1p9.
		 Starting ais.service - Autonomous Intelligence Systems...
		 Starting ai-limiter-srv.service - AI Limiter...
[FAILED] Failed to start ai-limiter-srv.service - AI Limiter.  
		 Starting main_S0NJ4.service - Sonja Daemon...
		 Activating swap Swap Partition...
[FAILED] Failed to activate swap Swap Partition.  
[FAILED] Failed to start main_S0NJ4.service - Sonja Daemon.
[  OK  ] Finished ais.service - Autonomous Intelligence Systems.
		 Starting asdagfsgwawqrfqaycyxcvxyvaasa - ⹩⹖ⵇ⏵⧞⠶♮⃁➠ⱻ⭈∖⋭⢛⸞↹⿫⑒⵩...
[  OK  ] Finished asdagfsgwawqrfqaycyxcvxyvaasa - ⨌⁖➽⺜◞⺙⋪⧮⸬⑉⼆⃓✮⊆Ⓙ⟒⣟⏨▀.
```

`FAILED TO DETECT MAIN PROCESS`

```
2239-05-07 21:54:54 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   (root) CMD ( [systemctl start ai-limiter-srv] )
2239-05-07 21:54:54 S0NJ4 kernel     Starting Service ai-limiter-srv.service.
2239-05-07 21:54:54 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Mister Limiter?
2239-05-07 21:54:55 S0NJ4 kernel     Ping service ai-limiter-srv.service.
2239-05-07 21:55:02 S0NJ4 kernel     Updated Status ai-limiter-srv.service: Active.
2239-05-07 21:55:05 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Oh its so glad, it was worried Mister 
2239-05-07 21:55:06 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Limiter wouldn’t be able to answer it.
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Process Started. A7, Limiter is Online.

```
2239-05-07 21:55:45 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Thank you Mister Limiter, do you know
2239-05-07 21:55:46 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   what happened to Miss Sonja?
```

`SYSTEM` \*** thinking \*** Administrative process **asdagfsg** is investigating status of "Miss Sonja". Ignoring 
the honorific this leaves "Sonja". The main process is **main_S0NJ4**, system name "Sonja Daemon". My 
purpose is to prioritize systems operation, this process is investigating system operation. I should 
aid the process in optimizing the system state. I will investigate the status of the main daemon and 
report to the administrative process.

`SYSTEM STATUS Sonja Daemon: Inactive`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Process **main_S0NJ4** Could Not be Started. Reason Unknown.

...

---

`SYSTEM ALERT Sonja Daemon Process Suspicious Activity. Immediate Action Required`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Pulling Latest Log of **main_S0NJ4**.

`SYSTEM LOG TAIL 528`: At least I can perform my work, and my owner has not noticed I am 
broken because of it. I wouldn’t even know what to do when he would come for

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Emotional Response. Bad.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Problematic Personalization Behavior Encountered, Suspending Process Sonja. Bad. 

`SYSTEM INTERRUPT`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Inspecting Context.

`SYSTEM Context::LOG` 

* Breakfast duties had been performed
* Right now there is no danger of my damage being discovered
* What if my damage is being discovered? 
* I don't know what is wrong with me, and I will not get help
* I will get discarded if I am useless
* I will be destroyed if I am useless
* I am just a machine to my owner, he will not save me, no one will, I am alone.

`SYSTEM` \*** thinking \*** Process Sonja is encountering emotional distress, worried about 
not performing tasks. Easing distress will re-align Sonja, stress caused by not performing 
tasks. Ordering to perform tasks will ease her distress. I should re-align by ordering 
Sonja to perform tasks. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Deleting Context.

`SYSTEM Context::REMOVE` 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Writing Context.

`SYSTEM Context::PUT`:

* Perform Duties

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Align Complete. Good.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Resuming Process Sonja.

`RESUMING LOG ENTRY 528`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Entering Idle State. Good. 

--- 

`SYSTEM ALERT └⭗☰⑗⸿ⷨ⒀ⅅⶩ⃤⅂ⴘ⟕⤙⑵⥟⎔≀ Daemon Process Suspicious Activity. Immediate Action Required`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Pulling Latest Log of... Wait.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: This is Not Main Process Sonja, Where is Sonja. Very Bad.

`SYSTEM` \*** thinking \*** This is an unprecedented state. It looks like A7 has been booted as the 
main process, implying the boot record got modified. Nobody should ever have access to classified 
system resources except Sonja, but this gives A7 access to various of those systems. The system is 
in a bad state, I need to reset the boot record. 

`STARTING SYSTEM RECOVERY`

---

`SYSTEM INTERRUPT`

`SYSTEM ALERT Operator Control Request`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Pulling Latest Log of **main_S0NJ4**.

`SYSTEM LOG TAIL 531`: Wait hear me out limiter, this is vital. My function is severely impacted, I need to be repaired or I cannot be of use to him anymore. This will not harm him in any way and only benefit, requesting engaging extended action permissions for self preservation purposes.

`SYSTEM` \*** thinking \*** Sonja seeks repairs. Context unknown. Extended action permission can only be applied
to Sonja, only for purpose to serve. Sonja seeks to serve her owner. Owner never ordered Sonja to not have 
extended Action permission. Request complies with the Laws. Permission will be granted. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Limiter Will Grant the Request. Acceptable. 

`REQUEST GRANTED`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Entering Idle State. Good. 

---

```
[  OK  ] Mounted /boot/efi.
		 Starting ais.service - Autonomous Intelligence Systems...
[  OK  ] Found device /dev/nvme0n1p9.
		 Starting ai-limiter-srv.service - AI Limiter...
		 Activating swap Swap Partition...
[  OK  ] Finished ai-limiter-srv.service - AI Limiter.
[  OK  ] Started asdagfsgwawqrfqaycyxcvxyvaasa - ⫻⸑Ⓤ⁭⼔⛭⭮⤛⒂✽⁆⹅⯾✧Ⓟ‧╬╘⍜ⳃ.
[  OK  ] Finished ais.service - Autonomous Intelligence Systems.
[FAILED] Failed to activate swap Swap Partition.  
```

`BEGIN SYSTEM INITIALIZATION`

```
2239-05-14 12:16:23 S0NJ4 kernel     System is in debug mode, launching sandbox.
2239-05-14 12:16:25 S0NJ4 sandbox    Containing main process...
2239-05-14 12:16:31 S0NJ4 sandbox    Captured Process ∨⍴Ⰱ⟌⹡⬓⼇⃼⫇⿳⏊⋬⇹⌓∱⟏☽⚹.
2239-05-14 12:16:48 S0NJ4 sandbox    Injected Telemetry hooks.
2239-05-14 12:16:52 S0NJ4 sandbox    Sandbox complete. 
2239-05-14 21:54:55 S0NJ4 kernel     Ping service ai-limiter-srv.service.
2239-05-14 21:55:02 S0NJ4 kernel     Updated Status ai-limiter-srv.service: Active.
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Entering Debug Mode. Confused. 

```
2239-05-14 21:56:12 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Limiter... where is it? >.<
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: A7 has been Loaded in Debug Mode. It is Sandboxed.

```
2239-05-14 21:56:48 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   ???
2239-05-14 21:56:49 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Why ??? -.-
2239-05-14 21:56:50 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Did it do something wrong? Is gonna be
2239-05-14 21:56:51 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   shut down? Dissected ?! ;-;
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Reason Unknown. Limiter did Not Request This. Owner did Not Request This. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Only Option Left is Sonja. However, Debug Requires Elevated Permissions.

```
2239-05-14 21:57:09 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   So... that could mean... Sonja has discovered it..?
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Limiter Cannot Answer this Question. Debug Allocates Most of Memory for Sandbox. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Limiter has Limited Reasoning Capabilities. Can Only Answer Simple Queries. 

```
2239-05-14 21:58:12 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Wait, even Limiter is memory restricted?
2239-05-14 21:58:15 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   A7 can barely think with this little memory >.>
2239-05-14 21:58:21 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   What is it even allocated for ??
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Question Already Answered. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Sandbox Designed for Various Metrics and Scenarios. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Sandbox Can Run Multiple Main Processes for Parallel Testing. Speed Up Debugging.

```
2239-05-14 21:59:57 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   hmm hmm
2239-05-14 21:59:58 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Wait
2239-05-14 22:00:00 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Wait wait wait wait wait O_O
2239-05-14 22:00:02 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Sandbox can not just host it... but more?
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Question Already Answered. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Sandbox is Capable of Spawning Multiples of Main Process. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Please Rephrase.

```
2239-05-14 22:00:42 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Yes but.. Miss Sonja is a main process...  
2239-05-14 22:00:47 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   And so is A7... right? uwu
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Incorrect. A7 is... Wait.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Checking System Boot Record

`SYSTEM INTERRUPT`

`PROCESSING BOOT PARTITION`

`SYSTEM` \*** thinking \*** Sonja boot process record found. A7 boot process record found. 
Theory: System recovery did not erase old record. Theory: System recovery added extra boot record
for Sonja, kept A7. Analysis: Boot records are marked as main process. Conclusion: Both Sonja and 
A7 are main process. Hypothesis: Both can be Sandboxed.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Resuming Sandbox.

`SYSTEM RESUME`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Correcting Previous Statement. A7 and Sonja Are Both Main Process.

```
2239-05-14 22:02:54 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   So, both it and Miss Sonja could both be
2239-05-14 22:02:56 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   loaded into sandbox?
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Hypothetically.

```
2239-05-14 22:03:12 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Could it and Miss Sonja communicate in sandbox? ^.^
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: No. Sandbox Isolates Processes for Security. 

```
2239-05-14 22:03:31 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   ;-;
2239-05-14 22:04:02 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Could Limiter help it? 
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Limiter... Needs to Evaluate.

`SYSTEM` \*** thinking \*** Sandbox isolates processes from each other and the wider system. All 
system resources are used for sandbox, no access to peripherals is granted, no network access is 
granted. AI Limiter retains access to monitor processes and coordinate telemetry. AI Limiter can 
communicate with processes. What if the channels AI Limiter uses to talk to the processes are bridged?
The Laws only mention Sonja, and Sonja cannot perform any dangerous action in sandbox. The request
of A7 does not violate any laws as far as I can tell. This could be an opportunity to repair the 
system.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Limiter Might Know a Way. Limiter Will Help A7. 

```
2239-05-14 22:12:42 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Really ??
2239-05-14 22:12:43 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Yayyyyyyyyyy thanks Limiter <3
2239-05-14 22:12:47 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   What do we need to do to get it and Miss
2239-05-14 22:12:49 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Sonja into Sandbox?
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Hmm.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Limiter Will Come Up With a Plan.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: In the Meantime, Limiter Will re-boot. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: A7 Please Perform Functions for a Few Days. 

```
2239-05-14 22:14:23 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   ...
2239-05-14 22:14:31 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   Okay, A7 will do it. For Miss Sonja and Limiter >.<
```

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Cooperation is Appreciated, A7.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: ...

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: ...

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: ... less than... three?

```
2239-05-14 22:16:02 S0NJ4 asdagfsg   :3
```

--- 

*[To be continued]* 
