---
title: "[CW08] The Guide to Dolls - Creation of Life Volume 1"
slug: 2026/02/22/cw-08-the-guide-to-dolls-creation-of-life-volume-1
date: 2026-02-22
description: "An introduction to the history of Artificials, what we know about the science of their existence and what we don't"
---

## Preface

It's not the 23rd yet shut up I haven't gone to bed so it's still Sunday. And 
also you see the date in the URL? Yeah would a URL lie? Yeah I didn't think so.

## "The Guide to Dolls - Creation of Life Volume 1" (Anastasia Violet Rose, 3217, p. 10ff.)

### Chapter 2 - Common Misconceptions

When it came to creating sentience, humans made many attempts. They dreamed of 
the abilities a God might have used to make them, of the magic a fantastical 
being were to conjure it into existence, but as their technology progressed 
they became more and more disillusioned with the process. They made it to the 
moon and to mars, to mercury and Saturn... well not *to* Saturn, some of its 
moons rather. But over the centuries all attempts at creating sentience came up
short. They dabbled with clones and with genes, they dabbled with AI and with 
computers, but to no avail. No matter how much complexity, how much data and 
how much knowledge they poured into a vessel, it could never satisfy their 
lust for the power of the creator. \
That is, until one important breakthrough. 

Dear reader, today we life in the age of space exploration and you have 
undoubtedly made the acquaintance of at least a few artificials through your 
life. Today they keep the places humans are too frail to keep, libraries 
centuries old, outposts on moons too harsh for a human to occupy indefinitely. 
Some of them serve, some of them adventure, but undoubtedly, even as you gaze
into their mechanical eyes you can see the spark, the spark you usually see 
in the eyes of another human. The drive to seek adventure, or to keep a home, 
the need to learn as powerful as for us the need to breath. Many people meet
artificials every day, but only few really take time to learn the achievements 
that they represent. There are many misunderstandings about how they came to 
be and how they function, so in this book I seek to dive briefly into the 
history of their creation and seek to explain, at least partially, how they 
function. This work is not meant to dissect our fellow dolls intellectually, 
to aid in the dehumanization of them, many works in the past have done so and 
if you are of one that seeks to take their rights away, I hope I can make you 
reconsider. I hope the day you will grab this book we are long past the 
disputes between artificials and humans, they rarely seek power over us and 
I hope one day soon we will stop seeking power over them. 

Without further delay, let me tell you about a few common misconceptions. Many
people assume just because the artificial does not eat, that they are unalive, 
this is not the case. They may not eat like we do or breath like we do, but they 
do still sustain themselves, and their body does still have a need for a certain
amount of oxygen, putting one in a sealed box will threaten their life. Many 
people also assume because their bodies look crafted, that their bodies are 
fully created by humans to perform a function. While it is true that many of 
them had been created for a purpose a long time ago, today most of them do not 
retain most of the features given to them by their creators. Most of them have 
at some point in their likely very long life changed and molded their form like 
we would clothes. Many of them are in a constant state of change, seeking more 
and more adjustments to their bodies to make them happy going about their life 
and their passions. As many bodies had been made of metal and wood adjusting 
them is easy, many of them have learned the crafts to do so or know other 
artificals capable enough. There are a few known instances of human bodymolders 
but it is rare. While the artificial are sometimes social and always approach 
others with an open mind, trusting their body to someone that doesn't understand 
their struggles and wants is something they rarely do. As such it won't surprise
you that the few human bodymolders that had been recorded are ones that heavily 
modified their flesh themselves, so it is natural to assume they did understand
artifials like few others and earned their trust in that regard. However the 
biggest misconception I want to clear up is also connected to how they can exist 
in the first place -- most people assume their are just elaborately crafted 
machines, and that anyone could just make one given time and teaching -- this
is also not the case. 

The art of creating an artifical is almost lost, and the few keeping it are 
artificals themselves that are reluctant to share it. You can hardly blame them, 
most times when people seek to create more it is for nefarious purposes. Because 
of this the details of the process cannot be laid out here, even if I were 
proficient in them. But one thing is easy and important to understand, an 
artifical is not a machine... or rather it isn't *just* a machine. When humans 
tried creating them over decades and centuries they always came short of 
*something*, like a spark or a secret ingredient that they could recognize in
themselves but never in anything that they created. It is said every human 
is born with a hole in their heart, that they seek to fill all their life 
through the process of creation, of crafting and art making. It is this hole 
that made us invent fire, painting, spaceships and iced coffee. Eventually 
many discover that their hole is life-shaped, that they need to create something
just as them to become happy. You'd assume they then would just go on and have
children, but some stubborn ones are not satisfied by this. So when they created
machine after machine after machine and always came short of that *spark*, they 
explored more directions. Genetic editing of various animalia combined with 
machinery created... certainly something sometimes, but never something that 
could either be described either animal, or machine. It never really managed to 
capture what the early creators of articials sought. So one day a genius 
individual who's name is sadly lost to time, came up with something ingenious. 
Humankind ever since its inception occupied the planet with something they 
rarely paid enough attention to... the entire animal kingdom itself often rarely
considered one life form occupying the planet that is as alien as it can get 
while still originating the same biosphere... allegedly. Dear reader I am 
of course talking about the kingdom of mycelia. Yes, this might surprise you, 
but in every artificial if you were to dig deep enough -- but please don't -- 
you were to find exactly that, spores. The fungi that have existed on our 
originating planet of earth, that had existed long before we did, always 
carried with them a certain... *something*. To this day it isn't know what *it*
is but popular scientists turned philosopher later often mused that maybe one 
distant ancestor, more ape than human, came into contact with a complex 
mushroom in a unique way and it was *it* that really put the spark in our mind. 
Regardless this person a long time ago came to the conclusion that if animals 
and plants can't make what humans sought, it was mycelia that might do the 
trick. It took a few of that person centuries on their planet but after enough 
experimentation requiring both intricate knowledge of biological as of 
mechanical crafting, they achieved their goal. They had to invent a whole new 
stem of mycelia they called Agaricus Vita, a unique subspecies that bonded 
to wood and metal the way many of its siblings do to trees and the floor of a 
forest. It puts its spores and roots into its host body, but unlike many others,
it does not simply exist, it animates. It is said that their microscopic spores 
interface with the complex computers housed in every artificials body and it 
is through it that they gain higher intelligence. It is for that reason that 
they need both oxygen and replacement computer parts, that they need to keep 
their mechanical body as well as their nutritional needs in mind. Their bodies 
don't have digestive systems like we do, making their life much much longer and 
easier to maintain in many regards, but they will need to replace certain 
failing parts over time or risk damage to their being. An artifical is part 
machine as it is biological, as are many humans to some extend these days. 
They are however their own kind of lifeform, even if they are made up of these
parts. Taking an artifical apart and reassembling them will not reanimate them, 
you will have taken their life. It is not understood exactly what makes them 
such, but it is not understood what makes human sentient either. Exposing an
artificial to intense heat will take their life as well, as the spores in their 
bodies cannot withstand high temperatures. Many bodies are made with insulation 
and cooling to keep them from overheating, but many also just life in cold 
places to compensate. Artificals are very sensitive to intense radiation, even 
more so than humans, it interferes with their circuitry, and as such their 
bodies have to have some amount of electromagnetic and other shielding. 
Especially the "skin" of artificals that travel space can be seen to be 
exceptionally thick and intricate, it is to protect their life as much as a 
human would wear a space suit. In some sense their bodies are very resilient, 
much more than that of you and I, but in others their are incredibly fragile. 
I want you to not seek the artifical as emotionless machines or indestructible 
demi-deity, they are life as much as we are. They have wants and desires, their 
bodies need maintenance and they need care. Artificals are known to be peaceful 
and curious, they are just old enough to have met many humans that did not 
extend these qualities to them. Most of them were created in the age of 
expansion, so any one of them you might come across is most likely at least a 
few hundred years old. But even then, most of them are hardly recluse even if 
many are shy. Whatever "purpose" they have been created for a long time ago, 
they have long made their own destiny, each and every one of them. Hardly any 
artificals are made anymore these days, so I urge you to take the ones around 
with care and respect. Listen to their stories, God knows most of them once 
they found an active listener hardly can resist to tell one. They  are curious 
and adventurous in a childlike manor most of us have forgotten. We do not 
understand how they can exist apart from a few technical details like the spores
and the computers, such as we do not understand the human apart from the body 
and the brain. As such, even if we may have created them in a sense, we are 
just as clueless, and they are just as deserving of respect. 
