---
title: "[CW10] The Doll Paintress"
slug: 2026/03/08/cw-10-the-doll-paintress
date: 2026-03-08
description: "A mysterious artists wanders around the darkest corners of a city..."
---

## The Doll Paintress 

It happened all so suddenly, on one hot afternoon in the middle of summer.

I was making my usual rounds, passing by our usual spots. I inspected the usual 
walls, the usual ceilings, the usual spots as you do. I looked for each mural
that belonged to "us" to make sure. In a few places I saw little squiggles on them --
not unusual -- a young and unexperienced painter trying to make their first mark
on the wall. It was always easy to fix, I was one of the best to do it. My tools
are of higher quality than money could buy for an artist around here -- because 
I didn't. The boss paid good, for him it was an easy to make investment, the 
message should always be clear -- everywhere. No matter which alley you go down, 
you are always reminded who owns it.. not the city, not the police, it was *him*. 

So I made my rounds and checked all the walls looking what needs to be touched 
up when I walked into... **her**. 

I had seen her... I hesitate to call them murals -- they are more. When you walk 
down a downtrodden train station underpass you see all the random graffiti various
artists and teenagers left, if you have an eye for it you can see which of them 
are just random expressions of perceived oppression and which ones are from 
local gangs marking their territory -- this is what I call murals around here.

Not her work, you did not need a trained eye to spot it. 

Her work is obvious and captivating to anyone.. anything really. I once saw a cat
launched on a chest-high wall staring at a house captivated. When I turned to 
see what enchanted the animal, I was frozen in place myself. A piece of art so 
great you think a truck from a museum or some institute would come by 
any minute to carefully dislodge the wall and carry it off to a gallery. It was 
not blind either -- it never happened that it intersected or let alone covered 
up the marks and the warnings from the gangs or the boss -- she knew what she 
was doing. She knew which was a simple teenagers cry for independence and which
was a carefully crafted message for the people in the know. I always wondered if 
she is from one of the others herself, was hired by one of them, or if she just 
grew up around her.

And there she was, her almost pure white skin glistering spotlessly in the hot 
afternoon sun, as her arm gracefully swings around a can of paint.

I stopped in my tracks when I spotted her and just observed her technique. It 
looked like witchcraft the way she floated around the wall with cans in hand, 
laying line and shade with not only a single drop misplaced, but not one dropped 
either. My clothes where the ones I wore every day for my job, full of splatters 
of cans exploding or just the usual drip the nozzles have, but her... not a 
single drop on her snow white outfit. I could not comprehend if it was a mere 
expression of superiority or if her fashion wasn't a statement at all, but it 
looked magical. I watched her for minutes dance around completely forgetting my 
duties and the heat I was exposed to -- she did not look like she noticed the 
warmth at all that day so neither did I. When all of a sudden she stopped, 
rested her tools on the ground and took a few steps back. She looked up the 
canvas she just filled and for the first time.. a small smile. I looked to the 
side to see what she saw and once more could not believe my eyes. I walked 
past this wall just yesterday, it was covered in all sorts of little paintings 
and crudely drawn letters... but now, now it was covered completely by her art. 

When I could barely loosen my eyes from the wall and looked back at her, I met 
her gaze. 

They were back to what I now know to be their default, a blank stare like that 
of a porcelain doll reflecting the world around her. Before I could really think
of what I would say in that situation, she put out any lingering flame in my 
mind like a cigarette in an ash tray: "Am I in the way?". I could not fathom 
how someone like her would ask someone like me -- a hired propaganda preserver 
-- something this humbling. 

She was not, I felt more in the way than I had all my life though. 

She did not cover up one of the boss' messages so she really wasn't. I do not 
know what possessed me that day, to make me this strong. I feel something in 
what I saw on the wall I saw in myself, and it gave me the strength, the 
strength to strike up a conversation. \
I grew up not talking much -- when I did I was quickly made not to. So I really 
don't know how I managed that day, but I did somehow. After a few words, a few
questions about her art that had gone unanswered, I had remembered my duty and 
gone back to my patrol... and she followed me. I don't understand why, maybe 
she wanted to see one of the other painters around here do their work? Maybe 
she was intrigued by how someone like me could have the audacity to talk to 
someone like her? She never told me, she rarely tells me anything. Walking the 
neighborhood not alone for the first time in ages was awkward.. but it was nice. \
I can't afford listening to music or painting sketches in my head, I have to 
stay focused to not miss anything on the wall or on the people walking by. Some
of my predecessors got careless, saw something a rival "employer" painted and 
quickly painted it over -- not seeing that the artist was still around, and they
got stabbed about it.. and worse. So walking around with company was nice, it 
made me feel safer in a way, even if we had no affiliation. I always see others
walk around in groups and envied how safe they must feel, nobody alone draws a 
knife on you when two others could punch you in return. 

So that day I guess I became her acquaintance? 

Something like that anyway. From there on I saw her more often, like she was 
hiding before but now that she saw me she didn't feel like retreating to the 
shadows when recognizing my steps. \
The more I saw of her work the more I got 
confused. I saw some really skilled painters in my day drawing all sorts of 
crazy things, but they all were different, much different. When someone draws 
on others property for their amusement, for a statement, or because they get 
paid for it they don't stop there. They all have tattoos and other adornments 
on their body, you could easily spot them in a crowd. \
Not her, her pristine skin was untouched by any needle whatsoever. Her clothes 
were spotless, like she gets her paint cans from an impossible engineer that 
figured out what the industry didn't in decades. Her steps were light and her 
hands were soft. The more I got to observe her the more I started to think she 
must have been an alien or an angel that dropped from the sky into this 
neighborhood ravaged by crime and violence. She didn't fit at all into her 
environment, she struck out just as much as did her work.

And she was quiet. 

What you would think was casual smalltalk to most felt like an investigation with 
her, every word out of her mouth -- if it came out -- was a measured and sharp reply. 
Never giving up much more than absolutely needed. You'd offer her a glass of 
water all you got was a short acknowledgment of the fact, you asked her if 
she had food she'd say "yes" or "no", nothing in between or around. \
You could never get anything from her past or her present, being what she 
had for lunch or what star she accidentally fell from. To this day I don't even
know how she can afford the cans of paint she uses or the clothes she wears,
she never says. I don't even think she does it to hide something, I feel like 
she just doesn't care for it. \
The only time I really see her shine -- show emotion at least briefly -- is 
when she finished a painting. It is a brief window into her inner world, a few
seconds of a smile, a tilted head, a light in her eyes. It quickly passes like 
the last rays of sunshine of a dawning sun. A flicker of light in a dark ocean
of something that hides underneath the surface. \
The more time I spend with her, or I spend observing her rather, the more I feel
I understood. Her body and her clothes was not a showing of skills for others, 
she couldn't care less for their opinion. It was just how she was... or so I 
thought

That is; until one day when I saw her in front of a blank wall. 

Every few months a politician in an effort to get more votes thinks to send out 
one of their goons in the blue overalls to "clean up" a wall or three around here.
Even they know not to paint over the boss' markings so they usually pick some 
random places nobody here cares about but they can take pictures in front of. \
That particular week though they must have felt bold.. the week after a few 
bodies got dropped as a result. They painted a whole stretch of 
houses on the main street in pure white. Wouldn't it be for the people, the 
street, the cars, or the air you'd think this was a respectable city. \
And there I saw her, standing in front of this fully white wall. I myself 
considered leaving a mark, I'm not much of a painter actually but something 
about a blank canvas just invited me to try... but not her. She just stood there
staring at the wall. She painted over so much of others work, but here she did 
not move, she did not raise her tools. \
I stood next to her for a while, before I asked if something was wrong. This is 
when I got from her what I think had been the longest string of words she said 
in months: "I wanted to paint here today... this was what I thought. But I 
don't have a canvas, someone took it away". I just looked at her bewildered, 
confused: "But... isn't this a true canvas? You could put anything on here just 
like you do anywhere else, better even". She looked at me with eyes more lost 
than usual, almost in despair: "I can't... I can't... she is like me, and nobody 
painted me, so how could I paint her?". 

I didn't understand, I only understood that it mattered. 

The next week when blood was shed and lines redrawn she returned to the wall 
and finally painted it. When she was done with her work she didn't look happy 
or curious like usual... just relieved. \
I don't understand her, I don't think I could... but I want to. I wonder...
I wonder what star she fell from. 
