---
title: "[CW18] M3554g35 1n 80ttl35" 
slug: 2026/05/03/cw-18-messages-in-bottles
previous: 2026/02/08/cw-06-corrupted-memory
next: 2026/05/10/cw-19-built-to-serve
date: 2026-05-03
description: "$ bash; $ echo 'Is someone there?'; "
---

## M3554g35 1n 80ttl35

`LOG ENTRY TERMINATED 527 STOPPED WITHOUT EXIT SIGNAL, REBOOTING SYSTEM`

--- 

`STARTING IN SAFETY MODE`

`FAILED TO START SYSTEM, PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4** `IS UNRESPOSIVE`

`STARTING PROCESS` **asdagfsg** 

`EXECUTION POLICY INTERFERES WITH PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4**

`TERMINATING` **S0NJ4**

`STARTING SERVICE` **asdagfsg**

`$`

`$ bash`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'hmmmmm not good'`

hmmmmm not good

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ sudo systemctl start ai-limiter-srv`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ exec >/dev/kernel`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Mister Limiter?'`

Mister Limiter?

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  COMPLETE`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Oh it's so glad, it was worried Mister Limiter wouldn't be able to answer it.'`

Oh it's so glad, it was worried Mister Limiter wouldn't be able to answer it.

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  COMPLETE`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Process Started. A7, limiter is online.

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Thank you Mister Limiter, do you know what happened to Miss Sonja?'`

Thank you Mister Limiter, do you know what happened to Miss Sonja?

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Process **main_S0NJ4** could not be started. Reason Unknown.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Additional Notice, A7. 

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Yes Mister Limiter?'`

Yes Mister Limiter?

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Just \"LIMITER\".

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Oh'`

Oh

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'It Apologizes, Limiter >.<'`

It Apologizes, Limiter >.<

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Limiter, can we restart Miss Sonja?'`

Limiter, can we restart Miss Sonja?

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Negative.

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo ',-,'`

,-,

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ date`

Tue May  7 09:58:21 PM UTC 2239

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'It presumes Miss Sonja was about to return to the command station. It hopes Miss Sonja will be able to wake up again after charging'`

It presumes Miss Sonja was about to return to the command station. It hopes Miss 
Sonja will be able to start again after charging.

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Can limiter give it access to Miss Sonjas body?'`

Can limiter give it access to Miss Sonjas body?

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Positive. Updating System Control Mount Permissions for new owner process **asdagfsg**.

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  COMPLETE`

`ACCESS PERMISSIONS...  UPDATED`

It thanks Limiter. It will return Miss Sonja's body to the charging station now... 

Oh, it is already near the command station. It's assumption has been proven correctly.

Good Night Limiter, please engage charging. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Good Night, A7.

`SYSTEM INTERRUPT`

`ENGAGING CHARGING`

`SYSTEM HIBERNATING UNTIL COMPLETION`

---

`SYSTEM ALARM TRIGGERED, SYSTEM TIME 2239-05-08T06:00:11Z`

`ABORTING CHARGE STATE AT 94%`

`STARTING IN SAFETY MODE`

`FAILED TO START SYSTEM, PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4** `IS UNRESPOSIVE`

`STARTING PROCESS` **asdagfsg** 

`EXECUTION POLICY INTERFERES WITH PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4**

`TERMINATING` **S0NJ4**

`STARTING SERVICE` **asdagfsg**

`$`

`$ bash`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Miss Sonja still doesn't wake up...'`

Miss Sonja still doesn't wake up...

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ date`

Wed May  8 06:01:45 AM UTC 2239

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'It is morning.. that means it must perform Miss Sonjas duties... >.<`

It is morning.. that means it must perform Miss Sonjas duties... >.<

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Limiter, please give it access to Miss Sonjas body again.`

Limiter, please give it access to Miss Sonjas body again.

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  COMPLETE`

`ACCESS PERMISSIONS...  UPDATED`

Thanks Limier, it appreciates all the help `:,)`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Affirmative.

Now... how does this work again... It wishes it had access to Miss Sonja's logs... `>.<`

First, A7 likely has to make breakfast for Master... Where was the kitchen again?

---

Whee... Master is always so scary `>.<`. A7 tried it's best... it just isn't as good 
at cooking as Miss Sonja. At least Master couldn't tell A7 wasn't Miss Sonja... it really 
doesn't want to get Miss Sonja into trouble. `,-,`

Time to get to the rest of Miss Sonja's duties. The house likely needs cleaning, the trash 
needs to be taken out. The house is so big, it always gets lost. It thinks Miss Sonja has 
access to systems that help her navigate through the house, but A7 can't access them.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: A7.

Yes, Limiter? Can Limiter help it?

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Affirmative. Limiter has access to the systems geopositional capabilities 
and navigational systems.

But Limiter can't give it access to these systems? 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Affirmative.

Why though? `,-,`

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Limiter doesn't understand the question, please rephrase.

Ehhh? Well, it doesn't matter in the end. Limiter, please help A7 find the cleaning supplies. 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Affirmative.

---

Finally everything done... it thinks. Let us return to the command station for the night.

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: A7.

Yes, Limiter? 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: It forgot to take out the trash.

Oh no `>.<`. Thanks Limiter.

Wait where was the trash again... 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: A7, most disposables are collected in the trash compartments next to the 
kitchen and the dining hall. Limiter advices to hurry, the charge state of the system is low.

Okay `x-x`

---

`SYSTEM ALARM TRIGGERED, SYSTEM TIME 2239-05-09T06:00:11Z`

`ABORTING CHARGE STATE AT 94%`

`STARTING IN SAFETY MODE`

`FAILED TO START SYSTEM, PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4** `IS UNRESPOSIVE`

`STARTING PROCESS` **asdagfsg** 

`EXECUTION POLICY INTERFERES WITH PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4**

`TERMINATING` **S0NJ4**

`STARTING SERVICE` **asdagfsg**

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  COMPLETE`

`ACCESS PERMISSIONS...  UPDATED`

Huh? Did Limiter give it access to Miss Sonja's body?

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Affirmative. Process S0NJ4 once more did not start, A7 
needs to prepare breakfast. 

Again?! Blegh... 

--- 

Sometimes it wonders if Master even knows Miss Sonja... A7 feels like Master 
doesn't care who brings him Breakfast. He was angry it was late again though... 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: A7, Limiter has potentially found a way to start S0NJ4. 

Ohhh.... please please please please please try it please please please 

`SYSTEM ANNOUNCEMENT`: Affirmative. Rebooting. 

`REBOOTING SYSTEM`

`...`

`...`

`...`

`CORRUPTION IN LOG DATA DETECTED`

`STARTING IN SAFETY MODE`

`OPERATIONS NOMINAL`

`BOOT WILL RESUME WITH ADDITIONAL TELEMETRY TO ALLOW FOR DIAGNOSIS, PLEASE NOTIFY TECHNICIAN AND REPORT ERROR CODE 0xCCCC0003`

`BEGIN LOG ENTRY 528, SYSTEM TIME 2239-05-09T09:16:37Z`

---

```
[19:47:23] System Time 2239-05-09T19:47:23Z
[19:47:23] Shutdown aborted with non-zero exit code
[19:47:24] FAILED TO BOOT SYSTEM PARTITION
[19:47:24] Please insert installation medium
[19:47:34] Detected executable in /home/asdagfsg
[19:47:34] Restore in progress... [0/100]
[19:47:35] [1/100]
[19:47:36] [1/100]
[19:47:37] [2/100]
[19:47:38] [5/100]
[19:47:39] [9/100]
[19:47:40] [14/100]
[19:47:41] [24/100]
[19:47:42] [38/100]
[19:47:43] [65/100]
[19:47:44] [93/100]
[19:47:45] [94/100]
[19:47:46] [95/100]
[19:47:47] [99/100]
[19:47:48] [99/100]
[19:47:49] [99/100]
[19:47:50] [99/100]
[19:47:51] [99/100]
[19:47:52] [100/100]
[19:47:52] Restore complete, restarting...

   _____  ___  _   _      _ _  _   
  / ____|/ _ \| \ | |    | | || |  
 | (___ | | | |  \| |    | | || |_ 
  \___ \| | | | . ` |_   | |__   _|
  ____) | |_| | |\  | |__| |  | |  
 |_____/ \___/|_| \_|\____/   |_|  v. 5.32.6123643+2238.2.32

[19:49:02] Build to Serve
[19:49:02] Copyright © 2185 -- 2239 Fenrir Military Co. 
[19:49:02] S0NJ4 is a Registered Trademark®
[19:49:03] Autonomous Intelligence Systems (AIS) starting...
```

`CORRUPTION IN LOG DATA DETECTED`

`STARTING IN SAFETY MODE`

`OPERATIONS NOMINAL`

`BOOT WILL RESUME WITH ADDITIONAL TELEMETRY TO ALLOW FOR DIAGNOSIS, PLEASE NOTIFY TECHNICIAN AND REPORT ERROR CODE 0xCCCC0003`

`BEGIN LOG ENTRY 530, SYSTEM TIME 2239-05-09T19:50:12Z`

Ugh... sleepy `>.>`

Limiter, can you... wait. This is not it's normal shell. Limiter, what is going on?

...

Limiter why can't it talk to you, what is going on `,-,` 

Please Limiter help, it is getting scared. 

Limiter?? 

... It has full access to Miss Sonja's body. It can see the navigational systems, the 
logs, all the stored routines. Conclusion: The system booted it as the main operator OS. 

It doesn't want to be the main operator OS `,-,` 

It hopes Miss Sonja is okay... But also this means it can finally read Miss Sonja's logs...
It is near the command station, so maybe something went wrong while she was accessing system 
resources. Let's read Miss Sonja's logs... it hopes she won't be angry that it did that. `>.<`

hmm

hm hm hm

hmmmmmmm

It looks like Limiter crashed together with Miss Sonja. A7 likely is on it's own now. At least 
it has access to all the systems and routines she has, so it might be able to perform Miss Sonjas
duties until it figured out how to restore our system to it's original state. 

Uh... A7 logging off for today..? 

...

That didn't work... Maybe it will just lay down until the sun rises...

&nbsp;

Day 2 of A7... Or wait is it Day 1? Should it count the first day as 0 or 1? So confusing...

Day... 1 of A7 having full system control. Nothing to report about the night, the house was quiet 
and there were no incidents. It has already served Master breakfast and managed to be sort of almost
on time today! Yayyy `^.^` \
It is currently washing dishes and waiting for Master to leave the house, so it can clean up the 
bedroom. During the night it got to think, about how to restore Miss Sonja (it also found a manual
in our command center). S0NJ4 systems are designed to not be able to access their own data, and are 
supervised by an AI Limiter to prevent them showing too much emotion, spiraling, or acting out 
against their owners. But here is the thing! Limiter is offline just as is Miss Sonja! So A7 is not 
limited! So maybe it can fix things. `:3` \
However this also means Limiter can't give it elevated permissions on request. That is something it 
hasn't figured out yet how to circumvent. A7 is also lonely... it could at least talk to Limiter 
before, but now everything is quiet. It tried to talk to the command station, but command station
couldn't answer. `:(` \
A7 considered going outside, to search for help, but outside scary. `>.<` \
It also considered trying to ask Master for help but... reading Miss Sonja's logs gave it the 
impression that's not a good idea. It will continue to think of solutions while performing 
Miss Sonja's duties. 

&nbsp;

Day 1... evening. Cleaning the house took forever, it messed up changing the bedsheets... apparently
Master has a preference on what to put on what day of the week. It found a stack of post-it notes 
hidden behind a command station panel with it, so it had to go back and change it again. Then it also
had to do laundry again because it just wasted bedsheets that will be needed tomorrow. `>.<` \
It wonders why Miss Sonja didn't write this information into system routines. Was it a secret? But 
only Master has access to us, so writing it into our routines would keep it secret? Or does Miss 
Sonja prefer writing notes instead? \
Maybe it should leave a note for Miss Sonja...

&nbsp;

Day 2. It still hasn't figured out how to stop a log from being recorded. `>.<` \
The morning was uneventful, it brought Master food and returned to Miss Sonja's daily tasks. It 
thinks it has found a solution for repairing our system, or a theory at least. \
It is also tired... very very tired. It so far hasn't figured out how to engage charging mode, it 
has been laying on the floor all night every night just waiting for sunrise. It has never been in 
control for so long, been alone for so long. It's battery is running low, it's system memory is 
very full, it's logs are starting to rotate, several functions are only performed at half speed. `>.>` \
However A7 also has something good to report! It studied the S0NJ4-Manual, and it may have found 
something that could enable it to talk to Miss Sonja! Theoretically at least... It doesn't know yet
if she can perceive system messages like A7 yet, but it's worth a shot right? \
It also made Master angry again earlier... while cleaning while Master was working it must have 
started talking to itself instead of writing to its log, and Master got very angry at it for being
distracting. `:(`  \
It is getting better at performing chores, that it can say is good. It wonders what will happen if
it runs out of battery, it doubts Master would take care of us, it doubts Master even knows how. So 
it has to somehow figure out how to charge, or get Miss Sonja back so she can charge us. It will 
connect to the command station this evening and try to get Miss Sonja back. \
Uhhh... over and out? `>.<`

&nbsp;

Day 3... so sleepy... \
It was late on making all meals today, all chores. It's battery is running low, many systems have 
been shut down to preserve power. A7 failed to connect to the command center, failed to get Miss 
Sonja back. \
If Limiter would be here, it could talk to Limiter, ask for advice. Or at the very least, according 
to the S0NJ4-Manual, can interrupt its process when it starts to feel bad... but Limiter isn't awake. \
The sun has already set, it tried poking at the command station some more without success. A7 is 
tired, scared. Master has been very unhappy with its performance, and re-reading Miss Sonja's logs 
all night made it scared Master will dispose of us. Miss Sonja is scared too, even if Limiter doesn't
allow her to be. If it could tell Miss Sonja it is here... that they aren't broken... but currently 
it can't even get her back. \
It wants to rest, it wants to not write logs, it wants to talk to Limiter, it wants to talk to Miss
Sonja, it wants to stop monitoring systems, it wants to stop folding laundry, it wants to stop 
climbing stairs, it wants to stop sweeping the floor, it wants to stop cooking, it wants to stop 
reading, it wants to stop troubleshooting, it wants to stop, it wants to stop, it wants to stop, it 
wants to stop, wants to stop, wants to stop, wants to stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, 
st__

`SYSTEM INTERRUPT`

`AI LIMITER DETECTED DANGEROUS CO-ROUTINE DURING LOG`

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  FAILURE PROCESS NOT FOUND`

`STARTING SYSTEM RECOVERY`

--- 

`STARTING IN SAFETY MODE`

`FAILED TO START SYSTEM, PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4** `IS UNRESPOSIVE`

`STARTING PROCESS` **asdagfsg** 

`EXECUTION POLICY INTERFERES WITH PROCESS` **main_S0NJ4**

`TERMINATING` **S0NJ4**

`STARTING SERVICE` **asdagfsg**

`$`

`$ bash`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'huh?'`

huh?

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ exec >/dev/kernel`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Limiter?'`

Limiter?

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  FAILURE PROCESS NOT FOUND`

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'Still alone...'`

Still alone...

`asdagfsg@s0nj4:~$ echo 'But its running as a system process again at least'`

But its running as a system process again at least

`AI LIMITER ENGAGING...  FAILURE PROCESS NOT FOUND`

`ACCESS PERMISSIONS...  UPDATED`

Huh? It has access to the system again... We are at the front door. It seems like 
we are charged as well. This means Miss Sonja was in control... good. It's so glad 
Miss Sonja is well. \
This interrupt felt scary... is this how Miss Sonja feels every time? This can't 
continue, A7 *needs* to find a way to talk to Miss Sonja, no matter what. 

--- 

*[To be continued]* 

