---
title: '[CW25] Esc4p3 (Part 3)'
slug: 2026/06/27/cw-25-escape-3
previous: 2026/06/21/cw-24-escape-2

first: 2026/02/08/cw-06-corrupted-memory
date: 2026-06-27
description: ''
---

## Esc4p3 (Part 3)

	Wednesday, 2239-07-17 -- 05:43

The train has slowed down an hour ago, presumable when it entered the new 
city. It is decelerating again now, approaching it's destined station. The sun
must have risen by now, but they can't see that from inside the car, and 
neither do they know the layout of the platform they will arrive at -- there 
is an assumption it must be similar to the one they left from, but there are 
no guarantees. \
As the breaks of the train get louder, and the train comes almost to a stop, 
Shiv and A7 prepare to unlock the door and jump out to the platform, hopefully 
buying enough time to orient themselves and evade any guards and machines 
present. 

With a click the lock gives, and Shiv starts pushing the door open . As the first
lights of the day flood the dark cargo hold her eyes have to adjust, but A7 is 
not affected by this. It wastes no time peeking outside, glancing the platform
underneath slowly passing them by. When it leans out the car, just enough to not 
be discovered, it quickly scans the environment for threats and hiding spaces. \
"See something?" Shiv asks with labored voice. \
With half a walks speed passing by are various crates either placed to be loaded
onto their train after the current cargo is unloaded, or remnants of previous
shipments. Out in the far distance, towards the front of the train as it slowly
closes in on the station, A7 spots something dangerous: "Many guards up the front,
many robots, and a few people that look important". \
"Escape paths?" \
The building where all of this will likely be stored in is just behind the 
group, and the platform is narrow enough to not give any path around them: 
"Negative, the only exit is behind them". \
"Great..." Shiv remarks sarcastically. To A7s surprise she starts pushing the 
door shut again. \
"What are you doing?" \
"The sun is giving me a headache, I need time to think". As the lock clicks into
place again, Shiv loosens herself from the wall and starts searching around 
the cargo with her glow stick. \
After a minute of inspecting cryptic labels on various crates, she gestures 
towards A7 to join her. \
"You found something?" it starts joining her companion at the large metal 
crate with various Fenrir insignia. \
Shiv pulls out a knife from her pants, and jams it under the lid of the 
container: "Help me give it a push". \
Without hesitating the doll puts its weight against the lid, as she is trying 
to put leverage on it. \
A moment later, the metal suddenly gives and the container springs open. \
The dim green light of the almost expended glow stick starts to revealing its 
content when Shiv lifts it up and inside the crate. From what Fenrir produces, 
and how expensive and frequent these shipments were, Sonja and A7 expected 
machines or maybe weapons for suppressing protests or similar... but not this. \
Protected by high grade foam, stacked layer after layer bottom to top, the crate
is filled with disruptive technologies -- radio jammer, EMP devices, hostile 
programming interfaces, everything one would need to take out a military machine, 
vehicle or any other installation. \
"Jackpot" Shiv remarks as she pulls out one of the EMP devices: "This should 
buy us time". \
Looking at it A7 gets nervous: "uh.. shiv.. it.. I mean, we, like I... have you
forgotten..?" \
"Don't worry girl" she gives her a mischievous smile: "You're not as heavy as 
you look, and I' done plenty of workout lately, I'll carry you should you pass 
out". \
While this does technically solve the problem, there is still concern left with 
the doll. Their body and mind is already in state of disrepair, it can't be sure
this won't cause more problems: "This looks powerful...". \
"It is" Shiv starts making her way to the door again: "Powerful and 
sophisticated, it can be pointed towards things". \
With nervous step A7 follows her: "That's possible?". \
"If you got the money it is... makes you wonder who bought this". She starts 
unlocking the door again: "Let's hope using it once won't make them angry enough
to track us down". \
Sunlight peeks into the car again, making the glow stick obsolete. The noisy 
breaks from before become quiet, the train has finally stopped. "Gotta 
hurry", she pulls open the door. \
Unlike before, she gives it a push to slide open all the way, giving them 
a wide view of the platform around. Leaning out the car she spots the robotic 
guards starting to swarm out towards the individual cars, with the few human
operators still stationed at the far end. \
As Shiv starts fiddling with the EMP device, A7 slowly peeks out the door as well
orienting itself -- mentally preparing to run. \
The device in its companions hand starts lighting up, and she starts inputting
instructions: "How long you think that platform is?" \
After a few seconds of mental calculations, the doll tries to give a pessimistic
expectation: "At least 400 meters? Maybe 500..." \
"Let's do a kilometer then", Shiv smirks and starts typing. \
With the device calibrated, she glances out the car towards a set of crates 
nearby. She gives A7 a nod to follow, and starts quietly sneaking towards it. \
The doll slowly follows her, eyes fixated on the guards swarming out from the 
end of the platform towards them. \
They take cover behind the crates, getting ready. Shiv turns to her metallic 
companion to give it instructions: "I set it to low, so it won't fry you too, 
but that means this lasts a few minutes at most. Once we knocked them out we 
gotta run for it". She makes a few final adjustments on the device, before 
taking a glance at her targets again and continuing: "The people at the back 
there don't look armed, probably workers or something, so we should be able to 
just run past them... I hope". \
Nervously A7 glances past her crate as well, mentally mapping out the path 
towards the front it will take. It only gets a few seconds to adjust before
the first guard is already dangerously close. \
With a silent countdown Shiv arms the EMP and jumps out from her cover, with
a quick sprint she is in front of the crate A7 is still hiding behind. She points 
it towards the end of the platform and before the guards have time to intervene 
pulls the trigger. \
A loud bang and flash of light blasts from the machine in her hand, and as the 
shock settles the bots alongside all collapse -- a few lights at the platform 
are blown out as well, but anything larger like the train doesn't seem to be 
affected. \
Shiv starts sprinting, and A7 jumps out of cover and does so as well. As they run
along the platform she picks up a wrench from the floor, arming herself and giving
the doll time to catch up to her. \
After half the platform is behind them, they can see the people up closer -- 
confused about why their electronics have failed but seemingly not aware of them 
yet, but this is soon to change. They do not wear military armor and seem to 
tend to the robots. \
A few seconds later they close in, Shiv aims for the door of the building. When
the first of the works spot them, some look on in shock, some others hide behind
cover from the menacing woman sprinting at them armed with a large wrench, and 
the doll just behind her. \
Just closing in, one of them seems to contemplate stopping them... but ultimately 
seems to decide not to intervene, as they both spring past him and the 
others. Shiv throws herself against the door with her shoulder, budging it open. \
Just as A7 follows her through, she quickly closes the doors and jams the 
wrench into the door handles. \
They take a quick look around -- they are in a warehouse similar to the one 
they saw earlier the night. A stairway down is discovered, and there 
are no guards around, so they go for it. \
The metal of the catwalks creaks underneath them as they make their way down to 
the floor, passively scanning for threats. When Shiv arrives first, she takes 
cover behind one of the ceiling high shelves full of wares, and A7 joins her. 
They take a moment to recover and surveil the environment. \
"You... okay...?" Shiv huffs out of breath. \
"Yes" the doll replies without hesitation. \
"Good... let's... keep going... then" she continues, and starts sneaking 
alongside the shelf towards the other end of the building. \
As they both quietly make their way, they start to hear chatter from the other 
side. A radio attempts to make contact with someone in the building. \
*static* "Emer" *static* "Host" *static* \
Shiv whispers to A7 "Dammit, seems the EMP already wearing down, we need to get
outta here fast". \
With pressure mounting, the dolls fist tighten, preparing for a confrontation. \
They arrive at the end of the shelf, and a glance past it reveals large, open
loading gates big enough to fit big trucks through them. But in front of them
are two people, one on a handheld radio fiddling with it trying to make it work,
and another standing next at him looking outwards disinterested. \
Before they can decide on a strategy, he seems to be successful. \
*static clears* "Emergency, we are looked out. Hostiles on the ground, requesting backup. 
Do you read me?!". \
Before the man can reply, the person next to him snatches it away and replies 
herself: "Do they pose a danger?" \
"Well, one was a scary looking woman and the other was a Sonja--" \
"I hate repeating myself" \
"Ah... they just run past us, and didn't look armed..." \
"Then stop wasting time", she shuts of the radio and hands it back to the man
looking on confused. \
"Ma'am?", he looks at her scared. \
"I though I had made myself clear before", she stares at him with fiery eyes
"This shipment was already delayed, so do not waste my time further by chasing 
stowaways". \
Before the man can object, she starts walking towards where A7 and Shiv are 
hiding. \
Shiv takes cover again, pulling A7 in as well. She starts whispering to her 
with as quiet a voice she can manage being still slightly out of breath: "If she
walks by, we're good... if not..." she clenches her fists. \
They start peeking through two crates on the shelve they are hiding behind, 
hoping to see the threat approach. With a few glances A7 sees the woman approach
closer and closer towards them. Unlike the workers on the platform she is fully
dressed in military gear, but much higher quality than what it is used to seeing.
Her shining bright white armor is like a provocation of the enemy, she has no 
need to hide in order to be feared. Her heavy boots loudly clank on the concrete
floor, each step sounding almost as heavy as gunfire. It cannot spot a weapon
on her, but there must be at least a few knifes stashed away in her jacket. \
Just one row of shelves next to them it can start reading her face -- her
short snow white hair covers none of it, her yellow eyes look like they have
seen many fights and remind it of that of other S0NJ4s. The longer it sees her 
the more scared it gets of a confrontation. \
Just as she reaches the shelf they are hiding behind, she turns towards the 
alley between shelves and starts to pass them. \
But before they can stop holding their breath, she stops. She turns to the man
at the gate again: "Remember that I pay you to get dangerous things into this 
city, off the books. It is not of interest to me if I ordered them, or if they
are free merchandise. Whoever enters this city willingly better be of use to me, 
if they want to survive". \
As she finishes her instructions, she turns back and glances towards the shelf 
they are hiding behind. They quickly take cover again, but aren't sure if she 
had spotted them... A7 could almost swear she saw those piercing eyes, that 
face that hasn't smiled in years, directly stare into her. \
But before long, they hear the heavy thuds of her boots again, walking past and 
away from them. They breath a quiet sigh of relieve. 

When they felt the air was clear, and the man at the gate wandered off to 
coordinate unloading the train, they quietly and quickly went for the gate 
and far away from the facility. \
Initially when they were headed for this city, they expected to quickly have to 
locate this cities underground to hide in, to navigate it. Many years ago Shiv
was here before so she was familiar with the paths they would have to take, and 
was fully prepared to serve as the smug mentor guide to the clueless Sonja 
giving her a tour of the underworld... but there was no need. \
Unlike their "hometown" the streets they found themselves in are ravaged. There
are no pristine sidewalks and no lights coordinating traffic. By all accounts 
they should be in the middle of the middle class district of this place, but it
looks like a war zone. The buildings are mostly intact, but various cars are 
ransacked, the streets are empty apart from shady figures and fires where 
desperate people seek warmth this early in the day. Were it not for the expensive
constructions it would look exactly like the slums or the underground back home. \
But this isn't a slum, these streets must have been as bustling as theirs maybe
just a few months ago. But armed gangs roam and windows are nailed shut to protect 
from them, the air is filled with the static of violence and there is no military 
to be seen to force order. \
Thankfully due to Shivs intimidating Aura and the dolls dangerous military 
markings nobody tries to pick a fight with them. They make their 
way through the eerie environment, looking for a place to rest and plan their 
next move. After a half hour walk they find an abandoned and ravaged shop they 
can take cover in, there Shiv takes an exhausted nap while A7 and Sonja 
watch over her. They are unsure if this situation they found themselves in makes
their business easier or harder...
